---
layout: post
title: Wikipedia's Lurking Lies
---

Well after Wikipedia weaseled its way into my life, my secondary school teachers began to warn me of its unreliable evil: the anyone-can-edit property made it all too easy for random idiots to add whatever they wanted, it was just a collection of pseudo-knowledge that uneducated people were throwing together, etc.
I was initially rebellious against this recommendation. I was familiar with some of the infrastructure, its anti-vandalism campaigns, its strict standards for style and article quality, its monitoring system for unencyclopedic content, unverified statements, its cute “[citation needed]” tags. Ubiquitous as cleanup tags were, they seemed evidence to me that Wikipedians like myself were making progress in their active effort to ensure that Wikipedia’s content remained verifiable and accurate.
I wanted to believe this because I believed in the power of the Wikipedia community, a subset of which I could see working very hard to maintain these properties of a select set of articles. True, if you look for any article on Atlantic hurricanes or Michigan highways, you will get top-quality, very well-researched and written articles.
But the reality was that the sheer vastness of the corpus of human knowledge makes it impossible to maintain the average quality of Wikipedia articles. Around the corner of things the median person looks up are the niche interests, some of which are sputtered with horribly written nonsense littered with advertisements, poorly sourced opinions, and bad style. Wikipedians do their best to try to maintain the level of quality they desire, but the harsh truth is that there are simply too many articles with the cleanup tag on top to do this.
While I was long since disillusioned from editing Wikipedia for other reasons, I recently spent some time rolling back vandalism, out of boredom, let’s say. While some of it was blatant patent nonsense: people adding insults about their friends or celebrities, people removing entire pages, people sticking curse words, etc. But these are easily discoverable by machine learning-trained bots. What irritated me were the subtle things: people changing birth years and heights, people changing climate data, people editing TV episode orders. As far as I know, I have no idea how to verify these. As far as I know, I have no idea whether they are malicious pranksters or people simply trying to correct errors. And as such, I am completely blind to the sheer amount of misinformation that must exist on Wikipedia, and this is what makes me afraid.